Python is:
	- A high-level language, used in web development, data science, automation, AI and more.
	- Known for its readability, which means code is easier to write, understand and maintain.
	- Backed by library support, so we don’t have to build everything from scratch, there’s probably a library that already does what we need.

Applications of Python :-
	1) Web Development :
		a) Django : Powers the backend of Instagram and Spotify for scalable applications.
		b) Flask : Supports microservices at Netflix and Airbnb.
		c) FastAPI : Builds High performance API for Uber and Microsoft.
		d) SQLAlchemy : Manages databases for Reddit.
	2) Data Science & Machine Learning :
		a) Pandas : Analyzes user data at YouTube.
		b) NumPy : Simulates scientific calculations at NASA.
		c) Scikit-Learn : Fuels music recommendations at Spotify.
		d) TensorFlow : Powers AI services like Google Translate.
	3) Web Scraping :
		a) BeautifulSoup : Scrapes price data for Amazon and Flipkart.
		b) Scrapy : collects real estate listings for Zillow.
		c) Selenium : Extracts data from dynamic websites like Linkedin
	4) Automation & scripting :
		a) Selenium : Automates testing processes for Mozilla.
		b) Requests : Handles API integration for GitHub.
		c) Celery : Manages background tasks at Instagram.
	5) Game development : 
		a) Pygame : Used in popular games like Frets on Fire.
		b) Arcade : Ideal for educational 2D game projects and tutorials.
	6) Desktop Applications :
		a) Tkinter : Tkinter simplifies building GUIs in Python.
		b) PyQt : Powers professional tools like Dropbox.
		c) Kivy : Develops interactive, touch-based apps like Bible+ App.
		d) WxPython : Used for specialized applications like Cura for 3D printing.

Key Features of Python :-
	- Python’s simple and readable syntax makes it beginner-friendly.
	- Python runs seamlessly on Windows, macOS and Linux.
	- Includes libraries for tasks like web development, data analysis and machine learning.
	- Variable types are determined automatically at runtime, simplifying code writing.
	- Supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, functional and procedural programming.
	- Python is free to use, distribute and modify.

First Program in Python :-
# This is a comment. It will not be executed.
print("Hello, World!")
Output :
Hello, World!

How does this work:
	- print() is a built-in Python function that tells the computer to show something on the screen.
	- The message "Hello, World!" is a string, which means it's just text. In Python, strings are always written inside quotes (either single ' or double ").
	- Anything after # in a line is a comment. Python ignores comments when running the code, but they help people understand what the code is doing.
	- Comments are helpful for explaining code, making notes or skipping lines while testing.
	- We can also write multi-line comments using triple quotes:
		"""
		This is a multi-line comment.
		It can be used to describe larger sections of code.
		"""



